CRISP2 Online help
==================

Press ALT-F to make
this window fill
up the screen.

  Press ALT-C to close this window

  Press ALT-X to quit CRISP2

  Press cursor keys to see more of this file.

The use of a mouse is essential to the execution of this
program. Keyboard controls can be used as shortcuts in
certain circumstances, but they cannot be used to do
everything you might want to do.

This file help on keypresses and tools only.
For full documentation, print out the accompanying file
CRISP2.DOC (Word for Windows format).


Global hotkeys
--------------
Pressing ALT-X will exit the program. If any files need to be saved,
the program will ask to whether or not this should be done.
ALT-H brings up this help file, CRISP2.TXT (which must be in the
same directory as the program itself).
ALT-D brings up the current directory.
F9 is the equivalent of clicking on the background (this restores
the normal palette).
F10 goes into CGA mode (In case you selected a strange video mode).
F12 redraws the screen (In case Windows has garbled the screen).

Window shortcuts
----------------
In windows with borders around them, pressing ALT-C will close the
window (if necessary asking if the window should be saved).
ALT-S will save the file to disk. The arrow keys, pageup, pagedown,
home, end, ctrl-left and ctrl-right, ctrl-pgup, ctrl-pgdown,
ctrl-home and ctrl-end will cause the window to scroll.
ALT-Z will zoom the window into fat pixels mode, whilst ALT-F will
resize the window full-screen. Alt-B sends the window to the back.
ALT-L will lock the window if it is a drawing window.
ALT-U will undo changes if undo is enabled in the preferences dialog
box and that window can support undo (i.e. is a map window).


Dialog boxes
------------
In a dialog box:
  Esc means Cancel
  ENTER means OK
  Y means Yes
  N means No


Text Windows
------------
In text windows (such as tree windows) pressing the up
or down arrow keys will alter the current selection, whilst ENTER
will cause the selection to be used (as if the right mouse button
were to be clicked on it).


File view windows
-----------------
In the directory and icon view windows:
  V means View
  H means HexEdit
  C means Copy
  R means Rename
  D means Delete
  X means Convert


Brush window
------------
The brush window allows you to view/edit the brush pattern.
Clicking on a pixel with the left or right mouse button will
increment or decrement that pixel, respectively.
In the brush window, + and - allow you to view different layers
of the brush (palettes may be up to four layers deep).


HexEdit windows
---------------
In HexEdit windows, the cursor keys and TAB affect the position of
the selection (if there is one). The letter and number keys allow
you to edit the character at the selection, whilst INS and DEL
insert and delete bytes respectively from the file.


File windows
------------
When files are loaded into memory you can edit them in
differing ways, depending on the type of file.
The file type is determined by its extension.

For instance:
TXT and DOC files are standard ASCII text files.
TSK files contain a list of tasks to execute (in ASCII
text format)

CHR files consist of 8*8 pixel monochrome characters.
MLT files consist of 8*8 pixel multicolour or monochrome characters.
BMP files are C64 multicolour bitmap pictures.
SPT files are a matrix of 64 commodore 64 hi-resolution sprites.
SPR files are a matrix of 64 commodore 64 multicolour sprites.

SET files are NES 8*8 pixel 4 colour characters.
PIC files define a NES displayable screen.
SF2, SF4 and SF8 files are 4, 16 and 256 colour superfamicom charsets.
SCH files are 16 colour Sega Megadrive charsets.
MCH files are 16 colour Sega Master charsets.

LBM and BBM files are 16/256 colour IFF pictures.
PI1, PC1, PI2 and PI3 files are 16, 16, 4 and 2 colour DEGAS pictures.
NEO files are 16 colour NEOCHROME pictures.
TGA files are 32768 colour (16 bit RGB uncompressed) TARGA files.

EGA and VGA files are 16 and 256 colour charsets.

TM2 files are 256 colour shape definition files. They are similar to
normal 256 colour pictures, but you can step through them using
the '<' and '>' keys (or ',' and '.').

FRK files are sprite definition and position file (2..256 colours),
    overlaid on picture files.
BOX files are box maps, overlaid on picture files.
MAP, BLK and MP files are block maps, based on another file.
COP files are copper lists (screen colour definition files) for the Amiga.


Drawing windows
---------------
LBM, BBM, PI1, PC1, PI2, PI3, NEO, SET,
PIC, BMP, PIX, ECI, ECB, CHR, MLT, SPR, SPT,
SF2, SF4, SF8, SCH, MCH, EGA, VGA and QL files
can be edited within drawing windows.

In drawing windows several keys can be used as shortcuts:
F1, F2, F3, F4, F5, F6, F7 and F8 change the brush mode of the current
drawing. 'x', 'X', 'y', 'Y', 'h', 'H' flip, double or halve the brush.
'j' swaps between the brush and the spare brush.
't' and 'o' make the brush transparent around the edges or opaque.
TAB displays the current mouse coordinates in the System Info window.
This is in pixels for most windows, or blocks in map windows.
SHIFT-TAB causes this information to be updated automatically.
SPACE plots the brush at the current mouse position, in the same way
as clicking with the left button will.
ENTER causes the brush to be put down at the same place it was picked
up from.
This can be useful when transferring graphics from one picture to
another, or when altering a picture by using one of the brush commands.

The right mouse button allows you to pick up a brush
from the picture (by dragging from one corner of
the area you wish to pick up to the other), whereas the
left mouse button allows you to draw on the picture with
the current brush/stencil and fill pattern, using the
current drawing mode. The current drawing mode for a window is
displayed on its right hand side.

You can select a drawing mode by clicking on its icon with
the left mouse button. Clicking with the right mouse button
will bring up a menu or dialog box relating to that tool.

You can press the number keys 0..9 to set the brush to be a
1*1*1 brush of that colour. Press several digits to get a
large brush value (up to 32767).
Also, + and - increment and decrement the brush.
You can also click on the colour blobs at the bottom right
of the window. The arrows underneath the blobs let you select
which bank of 16 colours you can see there.

Pressing SHIFT-0 ... SHIFT-9 will cause the appropriate bit to
be toggled in the whole brush. Transparent parts of the brush
are not affected.

CHR, PIC and BMP files have a Decolour option on their menus,
which allows them to be quickly changed into a standard
palette.

MLT files can be viewed either in monochrome or multicolour mode.

The drawing modes currently supported are draw, fill
lasso, spray and text. Draw, fill and text can be modified by the
grid option. Draw and fill can be modified by the palette option
or the attribute option.
Draw can be modified by the all option or the attribute and all
options together.

The draw mode allows the brush to be dragged across the picture
with the left mouse button. Dragging with the right mouse
button allows you to pick up a brush and fill pattern.

In fill mode, a click with the left mouse button will cause an
enclosed area to be filled with the current fill pattern.
Dragging with with the right mouse button allows you to pick up
a brush (and fill pattern).

The lasso mode grabs an enclosed area into the brush. This
area is bounded by the background colour. The background colour
of a drawing is currently defined as the colour of the top-left
pixel in the drawing. It does not change the fill pattern.
This pickup is done with the right mouse button. Clicking with
the left mouse button puts down a copy of the lassoed brush.
You can drag this around and it will erase itself.
This is useful for joining up graphical pieces. The area picked
up has the Transparency brush command applied to it. This can
be undone with the Opaque option, allowing the background colour
to be put down.

In spray mode, a click with the left mouse button causes the brush
to be sprayed around positions close to the mouse position.
The right mouse button picks up as usual. To spray fill patterns,
set the brush to a stencil pattern using the stencil menu.

In text mode, a click with the left mouse button causes a text
cursor position to be set to the correct place. This cursor
is at the moment invisible!
Pressing a alphanumeric key will now place text at that position.
This text is sprayed in the current fill pattern.
The right mouse button picks up as usual.

The palette option allows you to change the colour attributes
of a PIC or BMP file. You can use this option in conjunction
with the draw or fill modes.
You may find editing the palette data by clicking on the brush
definition useful. The + and - keys change which part of the
palette you are viewing. (Usually 1..4 palette layers).

The grid option restricts brush movement to the grid boundaries
natural to the type of a drawing window, for instance character
or sprite boundaries.
This only applies to the draw mode and picking up a brush/fill pattern.

Clicking with the right mouse button on the tool window causes a
menu or dialog box to appear.
The draw icon brings up the stencil menu.
The fill icon brings up the fill patterns menu.
The spray icon brings up a dialog box allowing you to change the
aperture of the spray gun.
The palette icon brings up the RGB or NES (as appropriate)
  palette dialog.
The grid icon brings up the grid size dialog box.


Map windows
-----------
MAP windows must have a character set file specified for them
in order to display. This is done by selecting a charset file from
a directory window and using the USE CHARSET menu option on
the appropriate map window.

Map windows behave like drawing windows in most respects.
A map window can contain a map window, in which case the child
map window is a set of 4*4 (for example) blocks made up from characters
defined by its child. Use the USE CHARSET option again to set this.
MP files do not remember who their children are or what their own grid-size
is, but MAP files do. Use the RESIZE GRID option to change the grid-size
of a map. (This grid-size will become the atomic size for any parents it
may have.)

Map windows have two drawing options that most drawing windows do not have -
Attribute and All.
These can be used together or separately. Attribute works with draw or fill,
while All just works for draw.

Attribute brings up a screen of white numbers which denote the attribute
of a block. These can be changed in the usual way with the left and right
mouse buttons pasting and copying areas.

All allows you to search and replace blocks - put the replacement pattern
into the brush with a right click and then left click on the blocks you
wish to replace. All instance of those blocks in the map will be replaced.
Be careful that the replacement pattern does not include a block which 
is in the area you are replacing, as the results may not be what you expect!
With both the All and Attribute options set, you can set all blocks of a
certain type to have the specified attribute.

You can press 'I' to insert or delete a row or column at the mouse
pointer position.


Object windows
--------------
FRK windows are object orientated. You can select a group of
objects by dragging with either mouse button or move the
selected objects with either mouse button. Menu options
affect the selected group. You can paste a bitmap object
into the map with the PASTE BRUSH menu command, or grab selected
objects into the brush with the GRAB BRUSH command.
Colour 0 is transparent.
You can underlay a picture with the USE PICTURE command.
  F1 = grid off.
  F2 = grid on.
  A aligns the selected sprites to the grid.
  C copies the selected sprites.
  D or BACKSPACE or DELETE deletes the selected sprites.
  G grabs the selected objects into the brush.
  H hexedits the objects
  P pastes the brush to the picture.
  T textedits the object
  ENTER uses hexedit of textedit according to user preferences.
  CTRL-BACKSPACE or CTRL-DELETE deletes the selected sprite definitions.
  , and . select different sprites
  + and - change the shapes of the selected sprites
  < and > select groups
  ALT0 increments group, creating a new one if necessary
  ALT, animates groups backwards
  ALT. animates groups forwards
  ALT/ animates groups forwards and backwards
  ALT+ inserts a group at the current position
  ALT- deletes the current group
  TAB prints up the mouse coordinates.
  SHIFT-TAB turns on automatic coordinate updating.


Box windows
-----------
Create a box by dragging with the left button.
Select a box with the right botton or the < or > (, or .) keys.
Move or resize a selected box by dragging with the left button
  from within the selected box.
Delete the selected box with by pressing the D key.
  + and - allow you to view different types of box.
  F1 = grid off
  F2 = grid on.
  TAB prints up the mouse coordinates.
  SHIFT-TAB turns on automatic coordinate updating.


Copper windows
--------------
To paste a colour selection from the brush, click with the
left button.
To select a range and copy it to the brush, drag with the right
button. A white bar will appear on the left.
To change a selected range, select a menu option or press
B for blend, L for lighter, D for darker, W for warmer,
C for cooler or G for greener.
T for twice as bright, H for half as bright.
B, H and T keep colours within the target system limitations.
You can edit the first colour in the selected range with
the RGB sliders at the top of the window.
ENTER gets the selected range into the brush again.

Translate windows
-----------------
Esc = cancel
ENTER = translate
CTRL-ENTER = one-to-one translate
+ = Increment brush
- = Decrement brush
, = Decrement palette number
. = Increment palette number

===========
Carl Muller
14 Mar 1993

